- In the last video,
I talked all about the window object
and how you can pretty much
just ignore it completely.
And in this video,
we wanna talk about the document object,
which is incredibly useful
all across programming
in the browser.
So to see exactly what
this document object is,
let's just console.log out document,
and we just type in document.
This is exactly the same as
if we typed window.document.
They're both the same thing we
can just use document though,
or window.document it's going
to print the same thing.
As you can see,
it prints out this weird
like hashtag document.
And when we open this up,
you're gonna see document
is essentially just all
of the html for our page.
You can see this is the exact HTML
of our entire page from
this index.html here.
So it's printing out the HML of our page
and that's really useful
because the document
allows us to get elements
from our HTML.
It allows us to modify our HTML,
create new elements to add into our HTML.
It's really the way you interact
with the HTML of your page.
So for example, if we wanna get the body,
we could say document.body,
and this is going to give us
that body element of our document.
We could also get for
example, document element,
and this is going to give
us just the HTML portion
of our document.
You can notice when we
had just document here,
it also gave us this doc type at the top,
but if we just wanna get the HTML element
and everything inside of it,
that's what document
element is used for it.
Now, I also mentioned that
you can create elements
with document.create element.
So let's just come in here
and we're gonna create a new element
and we're gonna set it equal
to document.create element.
And this is a function.
And all you do is pass
the name of the tag.
So you can create, for example, a div
or you can create a span,
whatever you want to create.
We'll just create a
span here, for example.
And then we can take our element.
And if we wanna put some
text inside of this,
we'll say dot innertext,
'cause now we have access to an element
and to specify the
texts we say, innertext,
and we'll just set it
equal to Hello World.
And now we just wanna add
that to our document body.
So we can say document.body,
'cause this is where
we're gonna add this too.
We could say dot appendchild
and we pass in the element we want to add,
which in our case is this
element we just created.
We're going to append it
to the end of the body
of our document.
We click save.
You'll notice nothing gets printed out,
but if I pull over the page,
you'll see that Hello
World has been appended
to the end of our document.
If I just shrink this down,
so it's on the right side of our screen.
And I changed this to like,
Hello World 2 and save.
You can now see it reruns
and re-adds this element
with the text, Hello World 2.
So this document is super powerful
and is really the gateway into interacting
with everything inside of our browser,
creating elements, selecting elements,
adding events, modifying things,
it's all done through
this document object here.
And in the next few videos,
I'm gonna explore all the different ways
you can use this document
object in more depth,
but this video was really just a precursor
to what the document object is
and how you can use it to
just create a simple element.
So in the next video,
I'm gonna show you how you
can select elements using
their ID and their class
with this document object.
And I can't wait to see you in that video.